"With just one polka dot, nothing can be achieved. In the universe, there is the sun, the moon, the earth, and hundreds of millions of stars. All of us live in the infinitude of the universe."  -- Yayoi Kusama


I saw this painting by Yayoi Kusama called The Galaxy (attached the image in files), and I was really inspired to try and recreate it for my Optical Illusion project. The original artwork is a canvas filled with irregularly sized and spaced dots, with "no fill" so to speak on a dark background. I wanted to somehow "bring it to life" in p5, and for some reason the idea of having all the dots be pulsing slightly, as though they were alive, really appealed to me. I knew I wanted to vary the size and the stroke weight of the dots, because that variation was what really struck me in the original artwork. I also color picked the shades from the original artwork to make it as close as possible.

I think the pulsating effect is what transforms it into an illusion, because it almost looks like images are being formed in the dark spaces between the dots, and random patterns keep forming and deconstructing gently.  I also think the randomization and pulsating together really fits the theme that Kusama spoke of in regards to this artwork -- "All of us live in the infinitude of the universe." I feel a sort of infinity when I stare at the pulsating effect.

It was really crucial to me for the effect to feel like a "pulsation," rather than a random and disjointed animation. The pulsing sensation is really reminiscent of life itself, like our heartbeats or the act of breathing. I actually figured out how to achieve this one aspect of the sketch through ChatGPT, and the solution was actually quite simple -- instead of randomly generating the size and stroke weights of the circles, (which I was doing before & which created a chaotic image), you instead can randomly generate the growth RATE of a circle. By setting very carefully defined boundaries on the randomness of the diameter and stroke weight, you can gently increase or decrease the values. And the most important part to achieve the pulsing effect, was to reverse the growing or shrinking direction every time the circle hit one of the boundaries. By making the growth rate faster or slower, you can also achieve some really interesting subtle differences, which I experimented with before landing here. 

As a final touch, I wanted to introduce some interactivity, just because it made it more fun -- so I made all the circles very slightly grow whenever the mouse was hovered over them. I also had to look up how to do this; I thought there would be a "mouseHovering" effect that I could easily call, but the easiest way to achieve it was just by using the distance between mouseX and mouseY to the preexisting x/y values of a given circle, to determine its location and which circles to affect. 

Given that this is already a famous piece of artwork, I think an animation of it absolutely could be deployed in many different real-life applications. While the idea probably wouldn't work in terms of copyrighted material, it's cool to imagine people wearing an outfit that has the actively swirling blues of Starry Night, for example. 

