The habit I wanted to track this week was my water intake. I struggle with drinking enough water and I hoped that tracking it would inspire me to drink more because I'm really afraid of getting a kidney stone... 

The idea I had was to use millis() to represent time passing in the week, and fill the canvas proportionately with "water", adding on every time I actually finished a water bottle at some point in the week. In order to create an array that would be easy to parse through, I worked out the math so that each entry corresponded to an hour in the 168-hour week -- So Sunday at 1am would be represented by '1', Monday at 1am would be represented by '25', with Saturday at 11pm being '167' and so on. For simplicity, I rounded my time values to the nearest hour.

(See my attached picture 'data.jpg' for more on the math breakdown)

Originally I thought one second should represent one hour, but quickly realized that would be way too slow and I made one second represent 8 hours. I had to do some research to figure out how to make the "water level" look like it was organically "growing" as I "drank" more water through the week.

The math part of this and syncing the elapsed second hours with the real week hours and displaying both values in text actually took a lot longer than I thought, and once I finished I realized that a plain screen with a water level rising appeared a lot more boring than I thought it would be, so I wanted to brainstorm ways to make it more fun and visually interesting. I came up with adding a "wave" feature to the water level, and then making it interactive by allowing the user to control the shape of the wave in various ways with their mouse location. Then, I had the idea to replace the cursor with a little surfer guy illustration because I felt like the combination of the wave rising with my water intake, and changing shape with mouse location, together made it look like surfing a wave. I also made the water change colors to add another visual interest, and I had the idea to reuse the sun I made in the Lost and Found project.

One of my overall favorite parts of this was adjusting the RGB values of the water so that it stayed within the muted blue watery tones that I really like, as well as making the sun and sunset gradient background. I love working with color and creating a feeling in that way.


Reflection:
I did realize I was drinking more water because I was tracking it, which was interesting -- although I don't know if its very good in terms of getting accurate data. I suppose the true accuracy was what was lost through tracking it, but I gained a better hydration level, which was nice. I wanted the data visualization to sync with a real representation of time, so that I could see if the "water level" grew faster or slower at different times of day, or different times of the week. I think this part of the project was somewhat lost because I happened to just drink water at a pretty regular rate this week, so although there is some variation in the wave growing, the growth rate overall looks pretty even. I think that if I were to track this over a longer period of time, the visualization would be more interesting because there are definitely weeks in the year where my water level gets very low or very high.

