I was born on a new moon day, and I've always found this little fact about my birth to be a bit special and interesting -- particularly the concept of a "moonless night". I thought it would be kind of cool to build an experimental clock that catered very specifically to me alone (and all other new moon babies out there). As far as external vs internal time goes, the moment of one's birth and entrance into this universe is perhaps the most internally significant moment of time.

The night sky is something I've been drawn to my whole life, not just the moon in particular but space overall; (like many people) I find it to be one of the most beautiful and mystical phenomena at our fingertips. I think of the moon as somewhat of a comforting, familiar figure in the vastness of the sky that we can always rely on -- tidally locked with the earth, with us -- wherever you travel, it follows along with you, like a watchful protector. Under that narrative, the idea of a dark, moonless night takes on a different perspective.  

I really enjoyed picking the colors for this sketch, as well as "drawing" the stars in the sky. There was probably a more efficient way to draw them randomly, instead of manually placing each one with an ellipse, but I found the process to be quite gratifying.  

I wanted to somehow "animate" the phases of the moon, having it end on the new moon phase, almost like a birthday countdown. I also liked how the moon was one big circle with changing parts, sort of like a reference to a regular clock. This is partly why I wanted to illustrate the shadowed part of the moon in addition to the sun-lit part, instead of only visualizing the part we "see."

The most difficult aspect of this was definitely figuring out how to draw the arc shapes, and unfortunately I still haven't really managed to get them accurately drawn -- in particular, the waxing and waning gibbous seem to be erroneous and I can't figure out the best way to fix it. As it is, for this section of the sketch, I had to do a LOT of googling and researching to figure out how to draw the arcs in the correct way, and I ended up just hashing together something that sort of worked. I did see other people's projects online with far smoother moon phase transitions, and I think I would have to use some Math functions or other added complexity to actually get the effect I want. 

My favorite part of this project was definitely the aesthetic value of the stars, moon, and night sky. If I had more time, I would want to enhance these aspects even further. I might want to use an appropriate blendMode to overlay craters on the moon that would appear on both the lit and shadowed sides. I also think it would be cool to have the stars moving in slow and subtle ways as the moon phases change. Additionally, I'd like to look into whether its possible to achieve smoother transitions, rather than this somewhat jumpy phase shift. That would help create more of a "clock" feel, emulating how a seconds hand on a clock can smoothly glide across the circle.